{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19460\viewh15000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 INSTALL guide for Dr.seq(v1.0)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Time-stamp: <2015-12-07 Sheng\'92en Hu>\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Tarelahu@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tarelahu@gmail.com}}
\f1\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Please check the following instructions to complete your installation.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf0 Prerequisites\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f0 Python version must be equal to 2.7 to run Dr.seq.\
\
1. Some build-in python libraries are required:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri1060\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 1.	ConfigParser
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 2.	subprocess\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \

\f0 2. A python package called RseQC is required for bulk-cell level QC (you can turn off bulk-cell level QC if you don\'92t want to install RseQC)\
\
3. R (>=2.1) is required to run Dr.seq.\
PDF and PNG file generation in R must be ensure. \
Some extension R libraries are required:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri1060\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 1.	cluster\
2.	fpc (you can miss this library if you don\'92t use DBSCAN as your parameter)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \

\f0 4. Alignment tools are required if you want to use the alignment function of Dr.seq (we accept STAR and bowtie2 as aligner, you can also input .sam file to skip the alignment step)\
\
5. samtools and bedtools are required\
\
6. pdflatex is required to generate QC report, otherwise you only get single QC plot in the summary/ folder. \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf0 Download and update\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f0 You can download and update Dr.seq latest version from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://bitbucket.org/Tarela/drseq/}}
\f1 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Set default parameter\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f0 Before you install Dr.seq, we suggest you to set default parameter (including the path of your annotation file, mapping index and path of major software.) To set default parameter:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri1060\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 1.	Find the template of configure file under \'93lib/Config/\'94 of this package\
2.	Set default parameter in the template configure file (PLEASE don\'92t change the name of template file and change or delete the name of any parameter)\
3.	Save your change and install Dr.seq. Dr.seq generate configure files according to this template, so the parameter you set will shown on the new configure file Dr.seq generate next time. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Install from source\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1060\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f0 Dr.seq uses Python's distutils tools for source installations. To install a source distribution of Dr.seq, unpack the distribution tarball and open up a command terminal. Go to the directory where you unpacked Dr.seq, and simply run the install script:\
\
$ python setup.py install\
By default, the script will install python library and executable codes globally, which means you need to be root or administrator of the machine so as to complete the installation. Please contact the administrator of that machine if you want their help. If you need to provide a nonstandard install prefix, or any other nonstandard options, you can provide many command line options to the install script. Use the \'96help option to see a brief list of available options:\
\
$ python setup.py --help\
For example, if you want to install everything under your own HOME directory, use this command:\
\
$ python setup.py install --prefix /home/tarela/\
\
After running the setup script, you might need to add the install location to your PYTHONPATH and PATH environment variables. The process for doing this varies on each platform, but the general concept is the same across platforms.\
\
PYTHONPATH\
\
To set up your PYTHONPATH environment variable, you'll need to add the value PREFIX/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages to your existing PYTHONPATH. In this value, X.Y stands for the major\'96minor version of Python you are using (such as 2.7; you can find this with sys.version[:3] from a Python command line). PREFIX is the install prefix where you installed Dr.seq. If you did not specify a prefix on the command line, Dr.seq will be installed using Python's sys.prefix value.\
\
On Linux, using bash, I include the new value in my PYTHONPATH by adding this line to your ~/.bashrc:\
\
$ export PYTHONPATH=~/bin/lib/python2.7/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH\

\f1 \

\f0 Using Windows, you need to open up the system properties dialog, and locate the tab labeled Environment. Add your value to the PYTHONPATH variable, or create a new PYTHONPATH variable if there isn't one already.\
\
PATH\
\
Just like your PYTHONPATH, you'll also need to add a new value to your PATH environment variable so that you can use the Dr.seq command line directly. Unlike the PYTHONPATH value, however, this time you'll need to add PREFIX/bin to your PATH environment variable. The process for updating this is the same as described above for the PYTHONPATH variable:\
\
$ export PATH=/usr/bin/:$HOME/bin/bin:$PATH\

\f1 \
}